We already had our firstborn, Renita.
And then I was told
that we were going to have twins.
We were new in the truth and inexperienced.
So I was saying to myself:
‘How can I take care of my children,
not only physically but more so spiritually?
‘How will I be able
to teach them to love Jehovah,
to worship Jehovah?’
And 1 Corinthians 3:10
shows us the importance
of raising a family
by using good quality materials.
So having a spiritual routine
is very important for the children.
My wife and I would have to lay
a good spiritual foundation.
We would have to set
a good example for our children.
As long as I could remember,
I would always see my parents studying,
doing personal Bible study.
I remember Dad—one time,
he came to us in the living room,
and he said, “You know,
I was reading Psalm 1:2,
“where it said we should find
‘delight in the law of Jehovah
and read in an undertone day and night.’”
He said, “What if we do this
as a family project,
like, we read the Bible every day
out loud together?”
And my parents were very simple, you know.
They didn’t require a lot of fancy things.
They were content.
Mom and Dad always worked part-time.
Dad pioneered, so money was limited.
Sometimes the car we had
wasn’t the most reliable,
and it would break down
right before the meeting.
I remember when our car broke down.
Initially I thought,
‘Oh, we’re not going to go to the meeting.’
Mom and Dad would say:
“Well, the car broke down.
There’s a meeting tonight, so let’s walk.”
So there are the five of us
—my dad in his suit,
the four women would be
in our dresses with our book bags.
And so that taught me not to let obstacles
and anxieties prevent me
from going to my meetings.
Spending quality time
was very important to my parents,
especially after the meetings.
We would change
into our pajamas, grab a snack,
go to the living room, and just start talking
about how our day went
and how the meeting went.
Just those special moments
—they brought us closer together.
I saw that Dad,
no matter how busy he was,
would drop what he was doing
and look at me and talk.
I knew I was more important
to him than what he was doing.
I remember a time
when I had a crush on a boy.
My parents reasoned with me.
I felt very comfortable,
you know, after that point, to maybe talk
about other things
because I could see that my parents
were not going to be angry at me.
You know, they were going
to listen to me and what I was feeling.
One of the blessings
that Mom and Dad gave me
was teaching me how to think
and meditate on scriptures.
They encouraged us to set full-time service,
or pioneering, as a goal.
We all worked part-time, me and my siblings.
And I remember one close family friend
said to me: “You know,
your parents are getting older.
“You know, you’re their daughter,
and you should probably work full-time.
That way they’d have more of an easy life.”
After that sister’s conversation,
I almost gave up
on pioneering, but I knew deep down
that my parents
would not be happy about that.
They wanted us to spend
our youth serving Jehovah.
My husband and I were invited to attend
the 145th class of Gilead,
and that was like a dream come true.
I have to thank my parents for that
because they always
supported me through the years.
I couldn’t have done it without them,
and for that I’ll be forever grateful.
I really do thank my parents
for the upbringing that they gave me.
I have a very happy life.
I’m thankful that I was able
to avoid a lot of heartache,
and that’s because my parents raised me
in the truth and in Jehovah’s way.
Children are born imitators,
and they’re going to imitate our example.
I want to thank Jehovah
for what our family is now.
To see all of us in the pioneer work
—all five of us are pioneering—
thank you, Jehovah.